Initial skeleton of MSG section. (#474)
mozilla/firefox-data-docs: src/metrics/definitions.md

> # Metric Definitions

Reviewer: I wonder if this would better go in the terminology document on docs.tmo? We can always split that up into different types of terminology, adding a metrics section.

https://docs.telemetry.mozilla.org/concepts/terminology.html

Maybe better yet, we could add a section per term, so we could do something like like this:

https://docs.telemetry.mozilla.org/concepts/terminology.html#usage-criterion
https://docs.telemetry.mozilla.org/concepts/terminology.html#dimension

Then, when talking about / introducing these terms in the metrics section, we can link back to these terms.

Author: yup, good point!  will do :)

Author: Looking at this now, I think it might be useful to explain what a metric, usage criteria, and slicing dimension is "in situ".  It may not be obvious to people how to use this section.  Perhaps we can have short notes here and also more thorough definitions in the terminology doc?

Reviewer: I think that could work, as long as the definitions in-situ are kept short. I assume at least the short definitions are unlikely to change.

Reviewer: Hmm, I guess I don't really see the point of a document that's just an abbreviated version of another? 

I think it would make more sense to provide some introductory content here on what you're trying to accomplish with the different types of detailed definitions in the child documents, then link to them explicitly here (as sort of a meta table of contents, [like the bigquery cookbook now does](https://docs.telemetry.mozilla.org/cookbooks/bigquery.html)). IMO some kind of story needs to be told about why people should read this section closely and carefully -- it doesn't need to be long (in fact it's probably better if it isn't).

Author: That's a fair point.  I'll make a pass of making this page more useful and am open to eventually removing it if we prefer to just promote its children one level.

> # Metric Definitions

Reviewer 2: This all smells very GUD-centric: it's describing GUD's method for specifying metrics. Does a DTMO page titled "Metric Definitions" need to be more general than this, or are we OK with neglecting metrics that don't fit this format?

Author: Good point.  Part of that is due to some copy and paste history.  I'll revise.  Generally, the GUD metrics are an important class and we definitely want to support first-class concepts of usage criteria, but we should make clear that not all metrics require usage criteria.  Sound fair?

Reviewer 2: Is this breakdown into "usage criterion", "dimension" and "metric" useful or confusing outside of a GUD context, even if parts are marked as optional?

This breakdown works well for metrics that boil down to "count the users who meet this usage criterion over a time period defined w.r.t. this day, optionally splitting users by some dimension(s)". This is one of my favourite forms of metric: "set some criteria and count users" is very outlier-resistant, and it encourages people to think and in terms of individual users and their experiences, rather than encouraging people to design a car with room for 2.1 kids when the vast majority of families have an integer number of children.

But this breakdown has a narrow scope that excludes lots of metrics, for example, "Average URIs browsed per client per day", "Total searches made per day", or any funnel conversion rate metrics. I know that GUD supports parameterised retention metrics that compute fractions, but even _that_ doesn't fit this breakdown as described.

What value are we trying to get from this document? How can we get that value in a way that doesn't appear to limit us to a subset of the metrics we need to care about?

Author: Discussed in thread above.

> It is important to understand that metrics are often defined in terms of a usage criteria.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to understand that metrics are often defined in terms of a usage criterion.
```

> * A `usage criterion` defines what a metric is measuring.  It generally specifies a product and what specific use of that product qualifies as active.  For example, “Any Fenix Activity” measures activity for all Fenix profiles that send a telemetry pings.  Similarly, “Opened DevTools” means that we measure activity for all Firefox profiles that send a telemetry ping indicating that DevTools was opened.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A `usage criterion` defines what a metric is measuring.  It generally specifies a product and what specific use of that product qualifies as active.  For example, “Any Fenix Activity” measures activity for all Fenix profiles that have sent a `baseline` ping.  Similarly, “Opened DevTools” means that we measure activity for all desktop Firefox profiles that have sent a telemetry ping indicating that DevTools was opened.
```

> * A `dimension` allows slicing to a subset of profiles according to characteristics of those profiles.  Available dimensions include: country, channel, OS, etc.  A slice is a set of particular values within dimensions, for example, “country is US” is one slice and “country is either US or DE and channel is release” is another.

Reviewer 2: Probably need to emphasise the word "slice" in the same way that we emphasise "dimension", "metric" and "usage criterion".

Author: Done.

> * A `metric` summarizes activity for a particular day.  It is defined in terms of a `usage criterion` and `slice`.  For example, the `DAU` metric will tell you how many profiles met the `usage criterion` within the `slice` or, more concretely, might tell you how many profiles had any Firefox Desktop activity within Canada.

Reviewer 2: > A `metric` summarizes activity for a particular day.

The first few times I read this, I interpreted it as summarising activity _on_ a particular day, which is not the case. A metric can summarise activity over some time period (e.g. 28 days for MAU), and we define that time period with respect to a particular day. Is there some way to make this clearer?

Author: As part of the above definition, I've completely changed to metric definition.  It probably needs further work though, so I'm open to suggestions.
